A third issue that we want to emphasize
in performance evaluation is signal
independence.
And to do this, I want to begin with
this notion of the wisdom of crowds,
which has become very
popular in recent years.
It comes from a book, the name comes
from a book, by James Surowiecki.
He draws on research that's been going on.
For probably a 100 years but
the fact that Surowiecki wrote this book
lead many academics to do more
research in this area, and
it's become a very hot area in research.
The basic observation is that the average
of a large number of forecasts
reliably outperforms the average
individual forecast.
So the motivating example
are these historical county fairs.
Where you might have a large cow,
for example, in a pen.
And everyone who comes to the fair
gets to guess the weight of the cow.
And the interesting bit,
the fascinating bit really,
is that even though most people
are quite wrong in their guesses,
the average of their guesses
is remarkably accurate.
And this has been shown in county fairs,
but also in many other domains that
the result of all these bets is that
the idiosyncratic areas offset each other.
I might be a little bit high,
you might guess a little bit low.
If there's enough of you and
me making these guesses, then we
tend to get very close to the truth.
So this has been studied in many domains
now and shown in many places and
it provides a way to get closer to
the truth by getting more signals,
getting more people involved,
getting more judgements from more people.
This is something that some firms
do in performance evaluation and
more firms should do more of.
But there's one very important caveat,
and that is that the value of the crowd
critically depends on
the independence of their opinions.
So if, for example,
in the county fair if everyone who walked
up to the booth talked with each other
before they made their guess, the value
of the crowd would greatly diminish.
They wouldn't be,
those idiosyncratic errors would be
a little bit less idiosyncratic.
Now they'd be related to each other.
If one person was loudly arguing that he
knew because of the breed of cow this was,
or the last cow he saw,
that this was a particular weight,
he would influence everybody's opinion.
Their opinions wouldn't be independent.
And the value of those independent
signals, would be washed away.
So, it's not merely a crowd that you need.
You need a crowd that is to the extent
possible independent of one another.
So, independent here means uncorrelated.
If the opinions are actually correlated,
then the value of each additional
opinions quickly diminishes.
So if you think you have the opinion of
100 people, if they're actually highly
correlated, then you might only
have the opinion of 5 or 10.
It's striking how quickly you rob
a crowd of it's value when
those opinions are correlated.
Here's a chart of that.
This comes from Bob Clemen and Bob Winkler
down at Duke, 1985 study where they just
kind of worked out mathematically, what's
the equivalent number of experts for
a given number of experts and the degree
to which those experts are correlated?
So here's what they found.
If the correlation is 0, in other words,
if the experts are perfectly independent,
then every expert you add
creates that much new value.
So the equivalent number
independent expert is the same.
But when those expert opinions becomes
correlated even at 0.2 which is a pretty
low correlation even at 0.2, you quickly
lose the value of adding experts.
So for example, in this chart, it shows
that as you go from 0 experts to 9,
if you have a correlation of 0.2,
you never quite get above 4.
You asymptote there,
where you have nine judges, but because
there's a little correlation between
them the effective number of judges,
there's only three, three and a half.
If the correlation's 0.4,
it plateaus much more around 2.
If the correlation is point A, you're
not getting much more than one opinion,
even though you've gotten nine experts.
This should be very sobering to us.
So we wanna push you towards crowds.
We wanna push you towards more opinions,
more assessments, cuz that's gonna help.
But you've got to simultaneously
try to maintain the independence
of those opinions.
In a recent study by Floyd and
Zimmerman, and
colleagues from Zurich, they found that
even when you tell people the correlation,
even when you tell them the exact
structure of where the correlation is,
how strong the correlation is,
people don't properly adjust.
It is sobering to think about how
people deal with according to opinion,
it's actually not laid out for
them explicitly.
This is not something people
deal with very naturally.
Where does the correlation come from?
How can we think about signal
independence in terms that
we are familiar with in organizations.
Well, the most obvious is that,
it happens when people have
discussed the issue together.
When they've had conversations,
when they've bounced their
opinions off of each other.
As soon as that's happened,
they no longer have independent opinions.
It can happen if they simply
talk to the same people,
maybe they don't talk to each other, but
they both talk to the same third party.
Or they share the same friends, or
they went to dinner with the same
group on different nights before.
All of these things
break down independence,
all of these things increase correlation.
It even happens when people
have the same background.
If they're from the same place.
If they've trained the same way.
If they have the same advisors.
If they have the same
historical experiences.
All of these things tend to increase
the correlation in their opinions.
Therefore, all of these things
break down the independence, and
decrease the value of adding additional
voices to whatever process you're running.
So we push towards a broader sample.
We push towards more sources,
more assessments, but
with a very important caveat.
You need to bill those as
independently as possible and
then design processes to keep
them as independent as possible.